# MapReduce

### Project Overview

MapReduce was originally created by Google to help efficiently compute their rapidly growing data on a distributed cluster of machines. MapReduce consists of two main steps, Map and Reduce, and one optional step that comes in between the first two main steps called Combine. 

### 1. Map
The first step, Map, takes an input key-value pair where the key represents an address and the value represents the entire record content. A map function will then process the inputs and output intermediate key-value pairs based on the logic defined by the user. For example, the key could represent a word and the value could represent a single occurrence. These intermediate key-value pairs will then be sent to be shuffled and sorted so that all values associated with the same key will be sent to the same reducer.
- Each reducer is assigned a specific range of IP addresses.
- It reads all intermediate files generated by the mappers.
- It filters the data (keeping only IPs that fall within its assigned range) and aggregates them into a final hash table.
- The result is written to an output file.

### 2. Combine (Optional)
The optional combine step is mainly used for the optimization of the MapReduce process. This step, if implemented, usually runs after Map and performs a local aggregation of the intermediate key-value pairs on each machine before being sent to be shuffled and sorted. This optional step reduces the amount of data needed to transfer between machines allowing improved efficiency and performance.

### 3. Reduce
The reduce process performs final aggregation
- Each reducer is assigned a specific range of IP addresses.
- It reads all intermediate files generated by the mappers.
- It filters the data (keeping only IPs that fall within its assigned range) and aggregates them into a final hash table.
The result is written to an output file.

### Assumptions

No current assumptions

### Work Split

### Jake Kim 
Wrote Reduce and part of Combine sections on README
Wrote reduce.c and table.c

### Soohyun Lee
Wrote Map and part of Combine sections on README
Wrote map.c and main.c

### AI Use

No AI was used for this assignment
